# Chapter 40 - Loop

## Exercise 40_02.00

What is the last value printed in this code snippet? Why?

```
let i = 3;

while (i) {
  alert( i-- );
}
```

## Exercise 40_02.02

Using the "for" loop, print the even numbers from 2 to 20.


## Exercise 40_02.05

In this exercise we will create a number guessing game that takes user input and replies based on how accurate the user's guess was.
1. Create a variable to be used as the max value for the number guessing game.
2. Generate a random number for the solution using Math.random() and Math.floor(). You will also need to add 1 so that the value is returned as 1-[whatever the set max value is]. You can log this value to the console for development to see the value as you create the game, then when the game is complete you can comment out this console output.
3. Create a variable that will be used for tracking whether the answer is correct or not and set it to a default Boolean value of false. We can update it to be true if the user guess is a match.
4. Use a while loop to iterate a prompt that asks the user to enter a number between 1 and 5, and convert the response into a number in order to match the data type of the random number.
5. Inside the while loop, check using a condition to see if the prompt value is equal to the solution number. Apply logic such that if the number is correct, you set the status to true and break out of the loop. Provide the player with some feedback as to whether the guess was high or low, and initiate another prompt until the user guesses correctly. In this way we use the loop to keep asking until the solution is correct, and at that point we can stop the iteration of the block of code.


## Exercise 40_02.10

For each iteration, annotate the value that is output and then compare it with the solution. Do both loops print the same values?

#1 The prefix form ++i:

```
let i = 0;

while (++i < 5) 
    alert( i );
```

#2 The postfix form i++:

```
let i = 0;

while (i++ < 5) 
    alert( i );
```

## Exercise 40_02.15

In this exercise, we will create a basic counter that will increase a dynamic variable by a consistent step value, up to an upper limit.
1. Set the starting counter to 0
2. Create a variable, step, to increase your counter by
3. Add a do while loop, printing the counter to the console and incrementing it by the step amount each loop
4. Continue to loop until the counter is equal to 100 or more than 100


## Exercise 40_02.20

For each iteration, annotate the value that is output and then compare it with the solution. Do both loops print the same values?

```
for (let i = 0; i < 5; i++) 
    alert( i );
```

```
for (let i = 0; i < 5; ++i) alert( i );
```




## Exercise 40_02.40

Rewrite the code, changing the loop from "for" to "while" without altering its behavior (the output must remain the same).

```
for (let i = 0; i < 3; i++) {
  alert( `number ${i}!` );
}
```


## Exercise 40_02.50

Write a loop that asks the user for a number greater than 100. If the user enters a number that is less than or equal to 100, ask them to enter a new number. The loop should continue asking for a number until the visitor enters a number greater than 100 or cancels the input by entering an empty line.

Variant: If the user enters something that is not a number, display an error message.


## Exercise 40_02.60

An integer greater than 1 is called a "prime number" if it cannot be divided without a remainder except by 1 and itself. In other words, n > 1 is a prime if it cannot be divided evenly by any number other than 1 and n.

For example, 5 is a prime because it cannot be divided without a remainder by 2, 3, and 4.

Write code that produces prime numbers in the range from 2 to n.

```
For n = 10, the result should be 2, 3, 5, 7.
```

P.S. The code should work for any n!


## Exercise 40_02.70

Write a program that, given the number of throws each player must make (N), simulates a dice game between two users, printing the player who scores the most points.

Assuming each die has a maximum of 6 faces, each player will roll the dice N times, meaning that a random number will be generated with each roll and added to the previous rolls to calculate the player's score.

Tips: The generated random number should be converted to your desired range (min = 1, max = 6).

https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Math/random


## Exercise 40_02.80

In this exercise we will be generating a table of values. We will be using loops to generate rows and also columns, which will be nested within the rows. Nested arrays can be used to represent rows in a table. This is a common structure in spreadsheets, where each row is a nested array within a table and the contents of these rows are the cells in the table. The columns will align as we are creating an equal number of cells in each row.
1. To create a table generator, first create an empty array, myTable, to hold your table data.
2. Set variable values for the number of rows and columns. This will allow us to dynamically control how many rows and columns we want within the table. Separating the values from the main code helps make updates to the dimensions easier.
3. Set up a counter variable with an initial value of 0. The counter will be used to set the content and count the values of the cells within the table.
4. Create a for loop with conditions to set the number of iterations, and to construct each row of the table. Within it, set up a new temporary array (tempTable) to hold each row of data. The columns will be nested within the rows, generating each cell needed for the column.
5. Nest a second loop within the first to count the columns. Columns are run within the row loop so that we have a uniform number of columns within the table.
6. Increment the main counter each iteration of the inner loop, so that we track a master count of each one of the cells and how many cells are created.
7. Push the counter values to the temporary array, tempTable. Since the array is a nested array representing a table, the values of the counter can also be used to illustrate the cell values next to each other in the table. Although these are separate arrays representing new rows, the value of the counter will help illustrate the overall sequence of cells in the final table.
8. Push the temporary array to the main table. As each iteration builds a new row of array items, this will continue to build the main table in the array.
9. Output into the console with console.table(myTable). This will show you a visual representation of the table structure.

## Exercise 40_02.90

Explore how to create a table grid that contains nested arrays as rows within a table. The rows will each contain the number of cells needed for the number of columns set in the variables. This grid table will dynamically adjust depending on the values for the variables.
1. Create a grid array variable.
2. Set a value of 64 for the number of cells.
3. Set a counter to 0.
4. Create a global variable to be used for the row array.
5. Create a loop that will iterate up to the number of cells you want in the array,
plus one to include the zero value. In our example, we would use 64+1.
6. Add an outer if statement, which uses modulo to check if the main counter is divisible by 8 or whatever number of columns you want.
7. Inside the preceding if statement, add another if statement to check if the row is undefined, indicating whether it is the first run or whether the row is complete. If the row has been defined, then add the row to the main grid array.
8. To finish off the outer if statement, if the counter is divisible by 8, clear the row array—it has already been added to the grid by the inner if statement.
9. At the end of the for loop, increment of the main counter by 1.
10. Set up a temporary variable to hold the value of the counter and push it to
the row array.
11. Within the loop iteration, check if the value of the counter is equal to the total
number of columns you want; if it is, then add the current row to the grid.
12. Please note that the extra cell will not be added to the grid since there aren't enough cells to make a new row within the condition that adds the rows to the grid. An alternative solution would be to remove the +1 from the loop condition and add grid.push(row) after the loop is completed, both of which will provide the same solution output.
13. Output the grid into the console.

## Exercise 40_02.100

This exercise will construct an array as it loops through the incrementing values of x. Once the array is done, this exercise also will demonstrate several ways to output array contents.
1. Create an empty array
2. Run a loop 10 times, adding a new incrementing value to the array
3. Log the array into the console
4. Use the for loop to iterate through the array (adjust the number of iterations to however many values are in your array) and output into the console
5. Use the for of loop to output the value into the console from the array


## Exercise 40_02.120

This exercise will demonstrate how to create a string with all the digits as it loops through them. We can also set a value to skip by adding a condition that will use continue, skipping the matching condition. A second option is to do the same exercise and use the break keyword.
1. Set up a string variable to use as output.
2. Select a number to skip, and set that number as a variable.
3. Create a for loop that counts to 10.
4. Add a condition to check if the value of the looped variable is equal to the number that should be skipped.
5. If the number is to be skipped in the condition, continue to the next number.
6. As you iterate through the values, append the new count value to the end of
the main output variable.
7. Output the main variable after the loop completes.
8. Reuse the code, but change the continue to break and see the difference. It should now stop at the skip value.


## Exercise 40_02.130: Math multiplication table

In this project, you will create a math multiplication table using loops. You can do this using your own creativity or by following some of the following suggested steps:
1. Set up a blank array to contain the final multiplication table.
2. Set a value variable to specify how many values you want to multiply with one another and show the results for.
3. Create an outer for loop to iterate through each row and a temp array to store the row values. Each row will be an array of cells that will be nested into the final table.
4. Add an inner for loop for the column values, which will push the multiplied row and column values to the temp array.
5. Add the temporary row data that contains the calculated solutions to the main array of the final table. The final result will add a row of values for the calculations.
